We started out with a high level-picture of GRC,
and then I briefly demonstrated how security GRC relates to it.
I'd like to zoom back out though for
just a few minutes to create some additional context.
Now we just concluded that security GRC is more tactical than GRC at a high level.
That high level, I describe as operational GRC,
that's where I want to start.
Let's start with operational GRC before we get specific about security GRC.
The core components of GRC have been part of business for some time.
We talked about some of our business goals before,
but GRC as a practice,
has really emerged over the past 30 years.
In fact, the first book dedicated to
operational risk management wasn't even written until the 1960s.
But things evolve pretty quickly.
In large part, the practice has matured because of
widespread fraud and widespread business failure.
Some of that maturity driven by regulation and some of
that maturity driven by businesses just being more prudent and planning for resilience.
Now the timing of that maturity really makes sense.
Historically, we've seen major crises in financial events drive regulatory change.
After the Great Depression, for instance,
we had the creation of both the FDIC in 1933 and the SEC in 1934.
Then, in the early 2000s,
we see the tech bubble burst,
and then we also see one of
the largest financial scandals in history leading to Enron's bankruptcy.
Those events then lead directly to the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in 2002.
That, of course, established sweeping changes to audit
financial regulations for publicly traded companies.
Now at the same time,
you've got groups like the Open Compliance and Ethics Group,
or OCEG, being founded in 2002.
They're founded as a think tank focused on the practice of GRC.
This again is in direct response to
the same fraud that led to the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley.
Their purpose, to build a framework for professionals to
ensure organizations are operating both effectively and efficiently.
Let's look at what the OCEG says about GRC.
They define it like this,
"GRC is the integrated collection of capabilities that
enable an organization to reliably achieve objectives,
address uncertainty, and act with integrity."
Now, thinking back to our business goals that we laid out before,
this definition maps directly to them.
But there is a disconnect.
It's not one of OCEGs making,
but one of the goals of their model is to break down
organizational silos and manage the business holistically.
If you think about all the processes necessary
to ensure a business is operating at peak efficiency,
you'll see that they all flow together to make up one system.
But you have something else happening in the early 2000s,
companies are starting to rapidly embrace technology of all kinds.
The challenge that's created is that technology
can't be viewed in the same way other business processes are viewed.
Business operations operate differently than financial management.
IT operations operate differently than security.
If you take audit, for instance,
you wouldn't audit financial records in the same way that you would assess IT systems.
As a result, you end up with a historical split between
operational GRC and what is commonly referred to as IT GRC.
One of those is focused on business,
and one of those is focused on the systems that support the business objectives.
Now functionally, this division still persist
with security GRC making up a large share of IT GRC.
There is a small caveat.
The GRC industry, particularly GRC software and service providers,
often talk about operational GRC and IT GRC as a single holistic function.
One of the reasons for that is the pervasiveness of IT as part of every business process,
or what we call today,
the digitization of business.
Security GRC has gained prominence
because of security's importance in successful IT operations,
and the potential for customer impact as security plays
a really large role in establishing trust with customers.
We, however, will continue to talk about
security GRC and operational GRC as completely separate entities.